###Topic 1: Aligning truseq data without barcodes and collapsing using picard's MarkDuplicateWithMateCigar

Relevant Directories:

    /home/brett/projects/BMFTools_Devel/Experimental_Data/HiSeq_TruSeq_Colo829/no_barcodes

I ran cut adapt on R1 and R3 from the 100Colo829 sample in the HiSeq TruSeq data:

    cutadapt --mask-adapter -O 6 -a AGATCGGAAGAGCACACGTCTGAACTCCAGTCAC -g ACACTCTTTCCCTACACGACGCTCTTCCGATCT -A AGATCGGAAGAGCACACGTCTGAACTCCAGTCAC -G ACACTCTTTCCCTACACGACGCTCTTCCGATCT -o 01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_ca_R1.fastq.gz -p 01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_ca_R2.fastq.gz 01_100Colo829_TS16N_D509_S1_R1_001.fastq.gz 01_100Colo829_TS16N_D509_S1_R3_001.fastq.gz

then aligned it using this command line:

    bwa mem -YT 0 -t 12 -R '@RG\tID:100Colo829_TS16N_noBS\tSM:100Colo829_TS16N_noBS\tPL:Illumina' ~/projects/Reference_Genomes/HumRef/human_g1k_v37.fasta 01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_ca_R1.fastq.gz 01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_ca_R2.fastq.gz | samtools sort -O bam -T temp -o 01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS.bam

Next I removed the duplicates using Picard's MarkDuplicateWithMateCigar:

java -Xmx10G -jar ~/bin/picard/dist/picard.jar \
        I=01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS.bam \
        O=01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_mdupms.bam \
        M=01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_mdupms_metrics.txt

Looks like somethign may have gone wrong.  At the end of the run MarkDuplicateWithMateCigar output

    INFO	2016-03-17 14:00:54	MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigar	Processed 61379221 records
    INFO	2016-03-17 14:00:54	MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigar	Found 60354999 records with no mate cigar optional tag.
    INFO	2016-03-17 14:00:54	MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigar	Marking 222261 records as duplicates.
    INFO	2016-03-17 14:00:54	MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigar	Found 0 optical duplicate clusters.

Looks like I need to use picard to actually add the MateCigar tag before running rmdup using that tag.  Makes sense.

    java -Xmx10G -jar ~/bin/picard/dist/picard.jar RevertOriginalBaseQualitiesAndAddMateCigar \
        I=01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS.bam \
        O=01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_MCtag.bam

###Topic 2: Bed file for extended panel may be incorrect
Relevant Directories:

    /home/brett/projects/BMFTools_Devel/Panel
    /home/brett/projects/ctDNA/COLO-829_strelka

.There may be some differences between the bed file and what I expect to be present, I'm afraid the doped-in probes are not appearing where I think they should in the bed file.
.I'm using bedtools to compare the two, when I subtract one from the other, I see no differences?  That seems unlikely.

###Topic 3: Variant Calling Using MuTect2
Relevant Directories:

    /home/brett/projects/BMFTools_Devel/Somatic_Analysis/HiSeq_Loeb_Colo_Run2_wCA

Need to resolve the bed problem before I can get too far on this.

###Topic 4: Problems with BMFTools

Daniel reported an error introduced into bmftools 5 days ago, probably didn't affect my runs, but I need to check the Inline re-run with cut adapt

##To Do's for tomorrow:
+ Check for problems from the bmftools error
+ continue to try to get MarkDuplicateWithMateCigar to work (probably move up to chpc for analysis)
+ continue to work on bed files to make sure all of the regions needed are There
+ work on variant calling, see if I can get the basics done for the 100% tumor samples
