###To Do's from Friday:
+ Check for problems from the bmftools error (**DONE** - no apparent reductions in file sizes, things look okay)
+ continue to try to get MarkDuplicateWithMateCigar to work (probably move up to chpc for analysis)
+ continue to work on bed files to make sure all of the regions needed are there (**DONE**)
+ work on variant calling, see if I can get the basics done for the 100% tumor samples
    + call variants on the 100% colo829 from the Loeb data.
    + Create the FM/FP plots that Keith suggested last Wednesday for the targeted variants

##Aligning truseq data without barcodes and collapsing using picard's MarkDuplicateWithMateCigar (continued)

moving analysis to chpc.

    /uufs/chpc.utah.edu/common/home/arup-storage1/u0521163/ctDNA_Data/HiSeq_TruSeq_Colo/no_barcodes

ran out of memory on ember, re-launching on kingspeak
ran using the bash scripts found in that directory and using the same sbatch script found there as well.
found that the BAM must be coordinate sorted (I thought it was), before being marked.

future runs of this tool should use

    java -jar /uufs/chpc.utah.edu/common/home/ucgdstor/common/apps/ember.arches/picard/1.130/picard.jar RevertOriginalBaseQualitiesAndAddMateCigar \
        SORT_ORDER=coordinate \
        I=01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS.bam \
        O=01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_MCtag.bam

re-ran the using above command line, submitted via sbatch (gross):

    sbatch sbatcher.sh

dammit, at the end of the standard err.  Huh.

    slurmstepd: error: *** JOB 1098183 CANCELLED AT 2016-03-21T14:11:07 DUE TO TIME LIMIT on kp249 ***

After some struggle, I figured out that this message above means I set the time limit too low and it auto-killed my job.  Huh.  Time on the cluster is hh:mm:ss I guess.

MarkDuplicateWithMateCigar is now running from it's own bash script. Then I will need to run GATK's depth of coverage

Looks like even using the SORT_ORDER=coordinate did not sort the bam?  Error out of MarkDuplicateWithMateCigar

    Exception in thread "main" picard.PicardException: Records were not found coordinate sort order

resorting with samtools sort

    samtools sort -O bam -T temp 01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_MCtag.bam > 01_100Colo829_TS16N_noBS_MCtag.sort.bam

then re-index and try to run again.

##Snakemake

Attended meeting to discuss and outline Snakemake SOP.

To do:
+ add mutect2 variant calling to workflows
+ re-create workflow without wild cards
+ create joint ruleset on the github page

I also started a directory for my SnakeMake analysis workflow:

    /home/brett/projects/Snakemake_Workflows/Test_Workflows/analysis_workflow

I'm going to attempt to add Mutect into my current loeb workflow


##Bed file problems
Created a new bed file contained the additional probes found in

    /home/brett/projects/BMFTools_Devel/Panel/extended_panel/designed-probe-coords-chr.sort.bed

by this command

    cat temp_desinged.bed ctDNA_V2_Probe-sequences_8-7-15_noCHR_sort.bed | bedtools sort -faidx ../names.txt -i - | bedtools merge -i - > ctDNA_V2_probes_with_colo829_dopes.bed

the sample now appears to contain the proper probes.  Not sure what I did wrong before, but I'll need to re-run MuTect2 and any other analyses that use bed locations.

##ctDNA Variant calling
Relevant directory:

    /home/brett/projects/BMFTools_Devel/Panel/re_extend_panel/ctDNA_V2_probes_with_colo829_dopes.bed

re-running MuTect2 on the 100% tumor sample with the new bed file.  Using this command

    java -jar -Xmx10G ~/bin/GenomeAnalysisTK.jar \
        -T MuTect2 \
        -R /home/brett/projects/Pipeline_Resrouces/resources/resources/usr/dbs/human_g1k_v37.fasta \
        -I:tumor ../BAMs/5_100Colo_10N11N_LB_rescued.realigned.bam \
        -I:normal ../BAMs/8_100BL_10N11N_LB_rescued.realigned.bam \
        -L /home/brett/projects/BMFTools_Devel/Panel/re_extend_panel/ctDNA_V2_probes_with_colo829_dopes.bed \
        --cosmic /home/brett/projects/ctDNA/Cosmic/CosmicCodingMuts_grch37_v76.vcf.gz \
        --dbsnp ~/projects/Resources/dbsnp_138.b37.vcf.gz \
        --out 8_100BL_10N11N_LB.vcf

I'll then use this to generate an inital, baseline ROC curve.

#To Do for Tuesday March 22, 2016

+ Add MuTect2 into Loeb Snakemake workflow
+ Finish MarkDuplicateWithMateCigar on the TruSeq sample
+ Check MuTect2 output for 100% Tumor Colo Sample, and create ROC curve.
    + Work on code to generate the FM/FP plots.
    + Create code to generate ROC curves overall
+ Work on GCC on the Slurm cluster
