#Running to do list
+ Add MuTect2 into Loeb Snakemake workflow
+ Check MuTect2 output for 100% Tumor Colo Sample, and create ROC curve.
    + Work on code to generate the FM/FP plots.
    + Create code to generate ROC curves overall
+ Work on GCC on the Slurm cluster (**ON HOLD**)
+ Run cutadapt prior to barcode collapse with BMFtools, and compare to run where cutadapt comes after collapse.
+ Look into PandaSeq or similar, how could/should we utilize overlapping reads?
+ Run MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigar on Loeb data, preferably the 100% tumor, same as the TruSeq run.  Be sure ot use a sample that is run through cutadapt first.
+ Run translocation pipeline on the ctDNA sample
+ Create analysis snakemake workflow

##MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigar on cutadapt'd Loeb data (HiSeq_Loeb_Run2) > TS 16N adapter diagnosis
    /uufs/chpc.utah.edu/common/home/arup-storage1/u0521163/ctDNA_Data/no_barcodes/Loeb

running the same shell scripts as I did for the TruSeq data now.  

the coordinate sort in picard's RevertOriginalBaseQualitiesAndAddMateCigar appears to not work properly.  After specifying that on the command, it still fails the following steup with

    Exception in thread "main" picard.PicardException: Records were not found coordinate sort order

This error repeated when I first ran samtools sort on the data.  Very frusterating.  Now running Picard's sort hoping to resolve the problem

    java -jar ~/bin/picard/dist/picard.jar SortSam \
        I=5_100Colo_10N11N_LB_addMC.bam \
        O=5_100Colo_10N11N_LB_addMC_psort.bam \
         SORT_ORDER=coordinate

Even after sorting using Picard, this pair somehow remains unsorted.  I have no idea what the hell is happging, but it's very frusterating.  Here's the full errors out of Picard

    Previous record: HISEQ-00783:47:HHCMKBCXX:2:1108:3068:85142	163	7	55241211	60	16S121M	=	55241236148	TTTGGCACTAGTGACTAGTCCTGTGCTGGAAGCCATGTTCTCTGGAAAGAGCAACCCAGCGGCTCATAAGCATAAGCGCGTGTGATGTGCCCCAACCAAACGACCGCCATGCACAACTTCCCTACCGGAGTTTTCAA	GGGGGIIIIIIIIGIIIIIIIGGIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIGGIIIIIIGIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIGGGIIII	MC:Z:123M14S	MD:Z:121	RG:Z:100Colo829_TS16N_noBS	NM:i:0	MQ:i:60	AS:i:121XS:i:0
    Current record:HISEQ-00783:47:HHCMKBCXX:2:2108:13710:66842	83	7	55240877	60	121M16S	=	55240752-246	GCCCCGAGAACGGGCCATTAGCAGTTGTGTATGTTAGATACATAATTGTATTATGATGCAGAAAGAATCTCTGAATGTGCAGTTATACCCAGTTGGTGACATGTTGGTACATCCATCCGAGAGTCATCGGCGGGCAG	GIGGIIIIIIIIIIIGG.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIGGIIIIIIIIIGGIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIGGGGG	MC:Z:16S121M	MD:Z:121	RG:Z:100Colo829_TS16N_noBS	NM:i:0	MQ:i:60	AS:i:121XS:i:19
    [Thu Mar 24 11:25:03 MDT 2016] picard.sam.markduplicates.MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigar done. Elapsed time: 4.60 minutes.
    Runtime.totalMemory()=7785152512
    To get help, see http://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/index.html#GettingHelp
    Exception in thread "main" picard.PicardException: Records were not found coordinate sort order
    at picard.sam.markduplicates.MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigarIterator.next(MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigarIterator.java:228)
    at picard.sam.markduplicates.MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigarIterator.next(MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigarIterator.java:47)
    at picard.sam.markduplicates.MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigar.doWork(MarkDuplicatesWithMateCigar.java:132)
    at picard.cmdline.CommandLineProgram.instanceMain(CommandLineProgram.java:209)
    at picard.cmdline.PicardCommandLine.instanceMain(PicardCommandLine.java:95)
    at picard.cmdline.PicardCommandLine.main(PicardCommandLine.java:105)

I'm going to try and re-run this same command a few times, to see if this is a strange read-collision problem (and rerun the marking), because I saw something similar yesterday. In parallel, I'm going to run the traditional MarkDuplicates tool, so I can get some numbers sooner.

Kingspeak has been hammered all day, can't get shit done, moving this locally:


##TruSeq 16N Adapter diagnosis
    /home/brett/projects/BMFTools_Devel/Experimental_Data/HiSeq_TruSeq_Colo829/NixPipeline

In order to put the final nail in this, I also need to run Nix's java pipeline on the TruSeq 100 Colo sample and look at the DoC.  That should put a nail in the bioinformatics as the problem.

I'm planning on running Nix's "barcodeAlignQCPolish_0.5.sm" snakemake pipeline pulled from Pipeline2.0 github.

I should see roughly the same coverage estimate as when I used BMFtools to collapse duplicates based on barcodes.

/home/brett/projects/BMFTools_Devel/Experimental_Data/HiSeq_TruSeq_Colo829/NixPipeline


##Testing merging paired alignments prior to variant calling
    /home/brett/projects/BMFTools_Devel/Experimental_Data/HiSeq_Loeb_Colo_Run2_cutadapt/pandaseq_bams

PandaSeq works at the FastQ level, so, Implementing it would require us to merge the overlapping alignments after collapsing using BMFtools, then align the merged and unmerged pairs seperately, then collapse them into a sigle alignment.  This would almost certainly break *everything* downstream of the analysis.

As Keith suggested, this is probably something better used at the **vetting** stage, rather than in fastq or bam polishing.  I'll talk to Daniel about it.

##Trying to run GCC through anaconda on ngs-prod-head1

I can't compile BMFtools on the server.  Either under the installed version of gcc (4.4) or under an anaconda envorionment with gcc4.9.

As I said to Mark,

"I messed with it a bit more and it doesn't seem to work, for some reason the `libcloog-isl.so.4': No such file or directory' error doesn't go away, even if I point to the proper version of anaconda's gcc directly in the makefile.  I'm not sure what that file even is, really and I don't know why the compiler can't find it.  I'll keep poking around a bit."  

I'm taking this one off the to do list for now.

##Analysis snakemake workflow
